The paper considers three factors and their contribution to labor force participation rates that will be examined alongside the political party in power: social welfare programs, educational policies, and family planning initiatives. 

The literature suggests differing findings in regard to the relationship between social welfare programs and labor force participation rates. Social welfare programs, and policies encouraging educational attainment are likely more prominent under Democrat party leadership. Some social welfare programs, namely disability Insurance, programs have been shown to lead to lower labor force participation rates, but only when coinciding with economic shifts requiring less workers (Duggan, Autor, 2003) (Parsons, 1980). However, other research finds that reductions in disability benefits may stem the withdrawal of low-skilled men from the labor market (Juhn and Potter, 2006).

As for shifts in the domestic sphere impacting labor force participation rates. One paper explores the relationship between labor supply and the risk of divorce, suggesting that labor force participation might be influenced by marital stability (William R. Johnson, Jonathan Skinner). Meanwhile the increase in participation of single mothers in the labor force “most likely reflects the impact of the 1996 welfare reform act, in which the welfare entitlements embodied in the old Aid for Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) program were transformed into more temporary and conditional assistance in the Temporary Assistance to Needy Families (TANF) program” (Juhn and Potter, 2006).

Outside of educational attainment policies [NEED TO GET SOURCES ON THIS], Republican leadership tends to support policies that encourage labor force participation rates.  

This paper explores how labor force participation rates in the United States from 1920 to 2020 are influenced by political party governance at the state level. It investigates the role of political leadership in shaping social welfare programs, educational policies, and family planning initiatives. Social and political factors causing labor force participation rates to vary, as well as political governance have both been analyzed prior, however the relationship between them and the wide scope of length is less studied. 

The research question is: “How does the labor force participation rate from the 1920s until present in the United States vary with political party governance, as well as broader political and social factors, such as shifting views towards family, education policies, and social welfare programs, influence these trends?” 

Using the time period of the 1920s through 2020 means will ensure there is an adequate amount of data while also having set dates. The political parties every two years are analyzed in order to track changes in the political parties for the House of Representatives. This means the analysis will occur for years 1920, 1922, 1924, etc. And the boundaries are within the 48 states that composed the United States in 1920. 

Using a Difference-in-Differences approach, the study analyzes changes in labor force participation over two-year periods, comparing states with Republican governors (treatment group) to those with Democratic governors (control group). 

The findings suggest that Democrat leadership is associated with higher levels of labor force participation rates, although higher levels of social welfare spending occurs under Democratic leadership, the increased spending on education and policies encouraging family planning correlate with increased labor force participation.
