The Korinek article offered quite a few helpful ways to improve my writing with generative AI:

For one, coming up with counterarguments was one suggestion, and I believe that is a good method of ensuring the logical reasoning of my work, as well as acknowledging the counterarguments, whether they bear weight or not. The discussion section will likely be the place I use this feature the most in checking the way in which I interpret the findings. This feature will help confront confirmation bias.

Another suggestion was to ask generative AI to explain code as well as debug it. If I can understand the work of others better through utilizing this tool, I should then be able to take that code and interact with the work of others in order to create a program that has the specific functionality I need, as opposed to always starting from scratch. Similarly, in terms of debugging, while I can directly ask ChatGPT to debug my code, I can also use the explaining features to show it the code and have it explain each component’s functionality. That way, I can identify logic and syntax errors and debug it myself. My usual method of asking it to directly debug my code may be less effective than asking it to explain the code, especially if it is generated from an outside source or from generative AI itself. Utilizing this tool will allow me to better engage with and interact with the work of others.

As for more writing techniques, the prompts for rewriting listed in the article were helpful. I find it better to provide generative AI with small samples of my writing when it comes to editing; that way, there’s less chance of it misconstruing my points in a rewrite. Some warnings regarding literary issues include sourcing and the problem of 'hallucinating' literary sources. This term refers to the AI making up sources of information.

The article also mentioned that Claude has the capability to look at attachments and summarize them. Perhaps ChatGPT does as well at the paid level. Finding a tool that has this resource, ideally for free but perhaps worth investing in, will be significantly useful when it comes to summarizing literature.
