Topic 1: 

Using the general topic of labor force participation rates and political party, I’ve developed the research question: “How does the labor force participation rate from the 1980s until present in the United States vary with political party governance, and how do broader political and social factors, such as shifting views towards family, education policies, and social welfare programs, influence these trends?” From my preliminary research, I determined there are significant relationships between political shifts and labor force participation that offer opportunities to analyze the why behind the relationship between the governing party and the outcome. For instance, Blau’s 2007 article suggests that the 1980s saw Reagan-era policies promoting deregulation and free-market principles, which may have encouraged more women to join the workforce. In contrast, policies in the 1990s focused on family leave and social safety nets under Democratic leadership. While other articles take approaches focused on subjects such as disability policies. Duggan’s 2003 article  discusses how Social Security Disability Insurance changed between Republican and Democrat administrations affecting the labor force participation rates. 
Generally I do not identify issues having a lack of research available to develop an argument, however I will probably need to condense the research question to look at 2-3 particular factors during each political parties rule.  

TOPIC 2: Latino Health Paradox
The Latino Health Paradox refers to the observed differences in life expectancies and health outcomes, noting that Hispanics tend to have equal or even better health outcomes compared to non-Hispanic Whites and other racial and ethnic groups across various health measures. Using Fernandez’s 2023 article from the Journal of Economic Perspectives as a starting point I observed that there is significant research suggesting the salmon bias and the healthy immigrant effect are contributors to this phenomena. The salmon bias suggests that “Latinos engage in return migration to their country of origin and are thereby rendered ‘statistically immortal’” (Abraído-Lanza, 1999). Meanwhile the health immigrant effect suggests that Latino immigrants are a self selecting group and only the healthiest will migrate to the U.S. Taking this information on what has been already researched I developed the question: “Compared to other immigrant groups how do Latino health outcomes measure up? Currently the research considers Latinos as a monolithic racial category, whereas this approach will allow for country by country comparison between Latin American immigrants and other immigrant groups.
This approach to observing the Latino Health Paradox will counter and observe the self-selection theory, however when it comes to the Salmon Bias I’m unsure if there is a way to statistically account for it and additionally to observe whether or not other immigrant groups similar have a high rate of return to their home country. 

TOPIC 3: 
Research question: Does U.S. infrastructure contribute to the persistence of work-from-home rates post-pandemic, despite expectations of a return to pre-2020 working patterns?
Building on the article “The Evolution of Work from Home” by José María Barrero, I will analyze key factors that have already been identified in shaping work-from-home trends. Additionally, I will incorporate statistics on infrastructure and commute times to explore whether the United States' reliance on work-from-home practices is influenced by its limited public transit options and lengthy commute durations.





